---
layout: reading
week: 3
author: Katie & Josh Whiffen
scripture: Psalm 66:1—7
scripture_passage: Shout for joy to God, all the earth! <br> Sing the glory of his name&#59; <br> make his praise glorious. <br> Say to God, “How awesome are your deeds! <br> So great is your power <br> that your enemies cringe before you. <br> All the earth bows down to you&#59; <br> they sing praise to you, <br> they sing the praises of your name.” <br> <br> Come and see what God has done, <br> his awesome deeds for mankind! <br> He turned the sea into dry land, <br> they passed through the waters on foot— <br> come, let us rejoice in him. <br> He rules forever by his power, <br> his eyes watch the nations— <br> let not the rebellious rise up against him. <br>
---

Joy? That word would likely not make the Family Feud list of “words that come to mind when you think of the year 2020.” Joy has been harder to come by this year, not just for us but for many people across the world. For us personally, this year we faced a scary diagnosis and many subsequent medical appointments and procedures for our (at the time) 3 month old, lost a loved one due to COVID-19, felt the stress as our companies laid off our co-workers and decreased work hours wondering if we were next, juggled being new parents in the midst of a pandemic, didn’t see (and still haven’t seen) many family members for months, and … other things that many of you have probably also experienced this year. How in the world can we find joy, let alone time to practice it regularly, when it feels like it’s just one blow after another?

For us, our reminder has been in front of us every day.

We often hear that children are blessings from God. We always believed this to be true, but it’s been another thing to experience this truth. Our now one-year-old daughter, Eliza, finds joy in every detail of the world around her from spotting a bug she hasn’t seen before to waving (often with both hands!) at our next-door neighbor. She shows pure joy in all things (except when you don’t get her a bottle on time or she skips a nap of course). As we look back on this past year, we will almost certainly look back on it and say that Eliza helped us through it just as much as we helped her. She provided us with moments where we had no choice but to experience pure joy.

This passage serves as a reminder of why and how we practice joy. The Israelites, in an incredibly terrible situation, were delivered by God. They never forgot God’s deliverance and celebrated it repeatedly. They remembered the great and awesome things that God had done for them in the past. But it’s not like life was perfect after God freed them. There were many, many more difficult times for them, and yet they still practiced joy by remembering God’s good works in their lives. Just as now we are all in the midst of some of the most difficult times we will experience, we can practice joy by remembering and celebrating the great and awesome things God has done and will continue to do.

Take a minute to reflect on something God has brought you through this year. This week do not be afraid to practice joy, whether that is through song, as in this psalm, or through experiencing the world through the eyes of a child. We all need joy, and as Christians we have much to rejoice over, even if it takes some effort during difficult times. After all, there are many wonders in this world God has given us, and they are all worth being joyful about. The world needs us to be joyful. Our joy is contagious to others, even from 6 feet apart.


