---
layout: reading
week: 1
author: Glynis Cowell
scripture: Romans 8:22—25
scripture_passage: We know that the whole creation has been groaning as in the pains of childbirth right up to the present time. Not only so, but we ourselves, who have the firstfruits of the Spirit, groan inwardly as we wait eagerly for our adoption to sonship, the redemption of our bodies. For in this hope we were saved. But hope that is seen is no hope at all. Who hopes for what they already have? But if we hope for what we do not yet have, we wait for it patiently.
---

I was never a patient child. I could hardly wait for Christmas morning presents. The expectation was that I would get one gift from Santa and a couple of gifts from my parents. My mother was a planner so I could usually count on the gifts for my brother and me being purchased, wrapped, and hidden away by early December. Rather than enjoy the excitement and mounting anticipation of what those gifts would be, I would search until I discovered the hiding place, then painstakingly slit the tape and carefully slip the gifts from their wrappings. Curiosity satisfied, I would rewrap each gift and place them just as I had found them. Every year I knew what my gifts would be long before Christmas arrived. For some reason, I had to know if my hope for that year’s “perfect” gift would be fulfilled and, if not, I reasoned that I could prepare myself to not show disappointment on Christmas morning. I am not sure when I finally realized that hope can be savored, is precious and powerfully life-giving. The need to control, to know everything in the moment, can be crippling. There is no hope if we already possess what we are hoping for or believe that we can just reach out and control that for which we hope.

What are you hoping for today? What are your deepest needs and desires? In this year of the pandemic, you, like me, may be achingly clinging to hope for some sense of normalcy, a return to at least some parts of life as we used to know it. Some of us may desperately hope for renewed health, emotional and/or physical healing, food, shelter, a job, safety, comfort, a sense of belonging, love…

As a family of believers, we can lean into our Heavenly Papa in all those hopes. We know that the greatest hope was first realized in the birth of the Christ child. We wait in glorious anticipation and with great certainty for the fulfillment of that hope.

> We know that the whole creation has been groaning as in the pains of childbirth right up to the present time. Not only so, but we ourselves, who have the firstfruits of the Spirit, groan inwardly as we wait eagerly for our adoption to sonship, the redemption of our bodies. For in this hope we were saved. <span class="source">Romans 8:22-24 (NIV)</span>

The greatest gift ever offered is truly ours. While we await the realization of that gift, we cannot wholly grasp the magnificence of that hope in which we were saved—eternity alongside our Father in Heaven. Elpis, the Greek word for hope, can be defined as “anticipating a favorable and confident expectation, looking forward with assurance.” May two beloved old hymns about hope help you lean with expectation and assurance into our ultimate Hope today, “My Hope Is Built on Nothing Less” and “Blessed Assurance.”

> Therefore we do not lose heart. Though outwardly we are wasting away, yet inwardly we are being renewed day by day. For our light and momentary troubles are achieving for us an eternal glory that far outweighs them all. So we fix our eyes not on what is seen but on what is unseen, since what is seen is temporary, but what is unseen is eternal. <span class="source">2 Corinthians 4:16-18 (NIV)</span>
