---
layout: reading
week: 2
author: Richella Parham
scripture: Psalm 23
scripture_passage: The Lord is my shepherd, I lack nothing. <br> He makes me lie down in green pastures, <br> he leads me beside quiet waters, <br> he refreshes my soul. <br> He guides me along the right paths <br> for his name’s sake. <br> Even though I walk <br> through the darkest valley, <br> I will fear no evil, <br> for you are with me; <br> your rod and your staff, <br> they comfort me. <br> <br> You prepare a table before me <br> in the presence of my enemies. <br> You anoint my head with oil; <br> my cup overflows. <br> Surely your goodness and love will follow me <br> all the days of my life, <br> and I will dwell in the house of the Lord <br> forever.
---

Memphis, Tennessee, 1970. I was just a little girl who lived in a middle-class section of town. Aside from the moon landing of the previous summer, I didn’t know much about current events. Perhaps because it so often included graphic images, my parents didn’t encourage me to watch the news. I didn’t know anything about the war in Vietnam except that my Uncle Richard had been sent there as a soldier and almost died from his wounds. I didn’t know Reverend Martin Luther King, Jr. had been murdered two years before less than 10 miles from my house. My world consisted of our little house on Deerland Street and the neighbors around us, Coro Lake Church of Christ and our friends there, and Westwood Elementary School, to which I walked every morning with my big sister.

Things were different for the adults in my life. They knew full well how difficult life was in those turbulent times. They did watch the news with all its graphic images. They knew what the funny yellow and black triangle signs attached to buildings all over town meant. They understood that the “riot drills” conducted by our school’s safety patrol were not just good chances to get out of math class for a few minutes.

One of the most important adults in my life that year was my second-grade teacher, an African- American woman named Mrs. Bell. Mrs. Bell was the teacher all the kids dreaded, known throughout our school as the toughest taskmaster and the strictest disciplinarian. From her we learned to read silently without moving our lips, to write neatly on the small lines of our tablets, to stand in an orderly line on the way to the cafeteria. Mrs. Bell required the best effort of every student and tolerated no less. “Spare the rod and spoil the child” was her guiding principle, and no one wanted to catch it from her.
Yet what stands out most in my memory of Mrs. Bell was the memory work she assigned to us. In addition to the words of several songs, Mrs. Bell had us second graders learn Psalm 1 and Psalm 23 by heart. It’s been 50 years now since I was in Mrs. Bell’s class, but the words of the King James Version of Psalm 1 roll off my tongue: “Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful ...” Psalm 23 is even easier: “The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures; he leadeth me beside the still waters; he restoreth my soul …”

What I didn’t understand then was that Mrs. Bell was passing along hard-won wisdom to the children of Westwood Elementary. In a time of local, national, and international tumult, she understood that our steps should not be directed by the counsel of the ungodly. She knew that paths of unrighteousness would appear all around us, and she wanted something better for her students.
When I think now of the words of the 23rd psalm, I am struck by the imagery of the trustworthy shepherd who provides food and water and rest for his sheep, who leads and guides them through difficulty, using his tools to ensure they thrive. When my heart clamors for what I don’t have, I am reminded that since God is my shepherd and I am one of his flock, I have everything I need.
But then I remember our turbulent times. I think of my son who is serving on deployment with the U.S. Navy. I watch the news with its graphic images. I observe the way people treat one another. I long for peace, but it’s hard for me to remember that I can trust God to provide what I need. It seems that the more I know, the less I rest.

So I’ve been focusing on some of the words Mrs. Bell taught me: “He restoreth my soul.”

When his followers were afraid of what the future would bring, Jesus promised, “Peace I leave with you; my peace I give you. I do not give to you as the world gives. Do not let your hearts be troubled and do not be afraid” (John 14:27). Likewise, when God inspired Paul to write of the fruit of the Spirit in the life of a follower of Christ, peace was on the list (Galatians 5:22).
God has peace and shares it with us: peace that comes from knowing that God always has and always will take care of us, that God is with us even in the darkest times, that God provides for us so bountifully that there is plenty to go around—even enough for our enemies. And when we are afraid, when we doubt God’s goodness or fail to trust in God’s provision, he restores our souls. God leads us back to the truth, reminding us that his goodness and unfailing kindness will be with us all of our days, and we will live with him forever.

Peace, then, is not the absence of tumult or heartbreak or sickness or death; peace is the presence of a loving God who cares for us through it all. Peace is found in the heart of God, which is precisely where we are held. The Father, Son, and Holy Spirit have made it so.

