---
layout: reading
week: 4
author: Jenny Lowndes
scripture: Exodus 2:1—10
scripture_passage: Now a man of the tribe of Levi married a Levite woman, and she became pregnant and gave birth to a son. When she saw that he was a fine child, she hid him for three months. But when she could hide him no longer, she got a papyrus basket for him and coated it with tar and pitch. Then she placed the child in it and put it among the reeds along the bank of the Nile. His sister stood at a distance to see what would happen to him. <br> <br> Then Pharaoh’s daughter went down to the Nile to bathe, and her attendants were walking along the riverbank. She saw the basket among the reeds and sent her female slave to get it. She opened it and saw the baby. He was crying, and she felt sorry for him. “This is one of the Hebrew babies,” she said. <br> <br> Then his sister asked Pharaoh’s daughter, “Shall I go and get one of the Hebrew women to nurse the baby for you?” <br> <br> “Yes, go,” she answered. So the girl went and got the baby’s mother. Pharaoh’s daughter said to her, “Take this baby and nurse him for me, and I will pay you.” So the woman took the baby and nursed him. When the child grew older, she took him to Pharaoh’s daughter and he became her son. She named him Moses, saying, “I drew him out of the water.”
---

I witnessed love last weekend at work. I watched the vulnerability that love demands. I watched behind my goggles, my mask, and a window. I watched with a walkie talkie in my hand and with the loud hum of a negative pressure machine in my ear. I watched three of my fellow teammates, dressed in PAPers and N95s tucked under their space helmets, save a 6-year-old, positive COVID-19 patient’s life.

But first I watched a mom love her child. With tears running down her face, she handed her son over to three staff members so that he might live. She stood in the corner of the room not able to leave and not able to be touched or comforted due to COVID-19. She watched these strangers in space suits keep her son alive.

I wonder if this is how Moses’ mom felt when she wrapped him in cloth and placed his gentle body in a basket. I wonder if she too felt alone and scared … I bet she did. Was she able to be comforted by her friends? I wonder if both of these moms realized that sometimes life makes us entrust our loved ones to another’s care. Sometimes love is letting go because you’ve reached your own limit of being able to care for them on your own. Love at its truest has no limits, even though we do. Letting go is not failure; letting go is sometimes love in its purest form.

Friends, have you had to hand over something or someone because of love? Is there something in your life that maybe needs someone else’s care at the moment? Maybe you haven’t had to hand over a child or maybe you have.  Or maybe you are more like Pharaoh’s daughter with open hands ready to receive love from an unexpected place. Whatever the case, I can almost guarantee love has made you do a hard thing.

<i>Holy God, the One I love and the One that breaks my heart,<br>
Root us in a love that has no limits, a love that opens us up to surprising outcomes and new life, a love that makes us brave enough to hand over the things we love the most. Because it is Your love that sets us free, that knows no limits. Your love is not fearful or restrictive or small. You say your love will not steal, kill, or destroy us. Help us believe that. You sent your Son, love in its truest form so that we may have life. Lord, it’s your love that brings us rest, that lifts burdens, that restores our souls, and it’s your love that opens our hearts to things we could never imagine. Love is always a risk, and yet it is so worth it. Lord, give us courage to take the risk. Amen.</i>

