---
layout: reading
week: 1
author: Mason Neiman
scripture: Luke 1.26-38
scripture_passage: In the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent by God to a town in Galilee called Nazareth, to a virgin engaged to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David. The virgin’s name was Mary. And he came to her and said, “Greetings, favored one! The Lord is with you.” But she was much perplexed by his words and pondered what sort of greeting this might be. The angel said to her, “Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God. And now, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son, and you will name him Jesus. He will be great, and will be called the Son of the Most High, and the Lord God will give to him the throne of his ancestor David. He will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end.” Mary said to the angel, “How can this be, since I am a virgin?” The angel said to her, “The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you; therefore the child to be born will be holy&#59; he will be called Son of God. And now, your relative Elizabeth in her old age has also conceived a son; and this is the sixth month for her who was said to be barren. For nothing will be impossible with God.” Then Mary said, “Here am I, the servant of the Lord&#59; let it be with me according to your word.” Then the angel departed from her.
---

The scene opens as Gabriel interrupts Mary’s up-until-now normal day, saying “behold” – listen up! — pay attention! —because something big is afoot! “You will conceive” the one through whom the hopes of Israel and the whole world will be realized. Not only in Mary’s life or time, but in her body. Amid the strangeness of the encounter, Mary’s gracious circumspection is instructive for us.

For me this year, I find something refreshingly familiar in Mary’s “how” question. In the theologically abstract, her question seems silly — of course God can do miracles, Mary! But in the immediacy of daily, bodily experience, she does not shy from asking just how God is going to do what Gabriel foretells.

Mary asks how. How familiar! In light of her response, I invite you to join Mary in bringing the “how” question into God’s working in the stuff of your life — your commute, your vacuuming, your impatience. We find that in the concreteness of our actual lives theological abstractions whither, and the substance of our faith is unveiled. Can and does and will God work goodness in my strained family relations, coworkers, a headstrong child, national politics or economics—down to even my own divided heart? Yes.

In response to Mary’s “how,” Gabriel gives an answer: “The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you.” And there is the answer: the Holy Spirit and God’s overshadowing power. Utterly true and utterly perplexing. What can one do but blink a couple times and say yes or no?

As we make room for the answer of Spirit’s nearness and overshadowing power, let’s join in following Mary’s example. Despite the opacity of God’s ways, she responds with her own “behold” statement: “Behold, I am the Lord’s servant.” She announces, proclaims, declares to Gabriel her readiness to participate in what God is up to, despite being perplexed!

As we begin this Advent season, let Mary’s response and attitude characterize each of us, while we try to make heads or tails of God’s grand work despite all the other things which seem to overshadow us.

