---
layout: reading
week: 3
author: Glynis Cowell
scripture: Luke 2.8-14
scripture_passage: In that region there were shepherds living in the fields, keeping watch over their flock by night. Then an angel of the Lord stood before them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were terrified. But the angel said to them, “Do not be afraid; for see—I am bringing you good news of great joy for all the people&#58; to you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, who is the Messiah, the Lord. This will be a sign for you&#58; you will find a child wrapped in bands of cloth and lying in a manger.” And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host, praising God and saying, <br><br> “Glory to God in the highest heaven, <br> and on earth peace among those whom he favors!”

---

<b>Overwhelming Light, the Glory of the Lord</b>

There has never been a birth announcement quite like that! Today I invite you to slow down with me, take a deep breath and, together, contemplate that amazing experience of so long ago.

Can you imagine? God chooses these humble shepherds to be the first to receive the most important message of the ages! Isn’t it fitting that the humble birth of the Good Shepherd would be shared first with humble shepherds?

Here we are, with them, in the fields near Bethlehem. We are all wide awake, abiding in the quiet darkness and watching over the flock. Suddenly, an angel appears above, a tremendous flash of light cutting through the darkness, turning darkness into light. And with the angel comes the glory of the Lord. The overwhelming, divine, presence of God. The darkness is “overshadowed,” overcome, by dazzling light. The splendor, the brightness, the majesty of the of the moment is blinding! The shepherds see, hear and feel, in a tangible way, the “weighty” presence of the glory of the Lord surrounding them.

Words fall short of capturing the magnificence of the glory of the Lord, though some have tried. Hildegard of Bingen, a 12th century nun, often expressed her spirituality and personal relationship with God through her music and writings. Gifted with spiritual visions from childhood, she was asked to describe the glory of God she had experienced. She wrote, “Heaven was opened and a fiery light of exceeding brilliance came and permeated my whole brain, and inflamed my whole heart, and my whole breast.” To her, the glory of God “gleams with such splendor that its brilliance dazzles your eyes.”

Imagine.

Of course, the shepherds are terrified. The angel says what angels must always say first, “Do not be afraid.” The angel then tells them that the long-awaited Messiah is there, right there, in Bethlehem!

Imagine.

And what comes next? Joining the angel, in the midst of the dazzling glory of the Lord, is a whole host of angels who sing an amazing chorus witnessed by the shepherds. That angels’ song of praise and exaltation has inspired composers throughout the ages. One of my favorites is “Hark the Herald Angels Sing.”

Hark! The herald angels sing,<br>
“Glory to the newborn King!<br>
Peace on earth and mercy mild,<br>
God and sinners reconciled.”<br>
Joyful all ye nations rise,<br>
Join the triumph of the skies,<br>
With th’angelic host proclaim:<br>
“Christ is born in Bethlehem.”<br>
Hark! The herald angels sing,<br>
“Glory to the newborn King!”

Imagine.

Because of this “good news of great joy,” “all the people” are invited to experience the overwhelming light, the glory of the Lord, now and forever as we abide in him and he in us. And how do we come to know the earthly peace for those with whom God “is pleased?” What pleases God? How are God and sinners reconciled? Throughout the Old Testament, God makes it clear that what he most values, what he most desires, is our hearts. Opening our hearts to embrace the “good news” of “the newborn King,” to believe that he is the Savior of the world who bore the weight of our sin on the cross and that the resurrected King will come again, allows us to experience peace and the presence of God in our lives, to taste the glory of the Lord for ourselves, the fullness of which we will know in Heaven.
The shepherds leave the fields with certainty they will find him, the long-awaited Savior of the world. Afterward, did those shepherds go back to the life they knew? They were men who not only received the good news of the Messiah, but they had experienced the very presence, the glory, of the Lord! Once we experience the Savior, we are forever changed.

In this season of remembrance and celebration, let us gather in the spirit of the shepherds of long ago, humbly, quietly, watching over those in our care. And as we do, may we open our eyes to the splendor of the glory of the Lord, bathed in light beyond our understanding, and experience the miracle of our Savior’s birth. Let us see and hear and feel the dazzling glory of God.

