---
layout: reading
week: 4
author: Mary Ann Baldwin
scripture: Psalm 18.28 and John 8.12
scripture_passage: It is you who light my lamp&#59; <br> the Lord, my God, lights up my darkness. <br> <br> Again Jesus spoke to them, saying, “I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will never walk in darkness but will have the light of life.”

---

Oh c’mon Jesus! Seriously! Will never walk in darkness? Did they have another definition for darkness that we missed? No more sadness. No more crying. No more dysfunction. No more loss, death, Covid, war, separation. No more darkness? Give me some of that light, I say! That light that equals no more darkness. I do want that … desperately.

I got lost in the dark once. It was scary and cold. I was 16 and on a ski slope. It was blizzardy, and we were in a foreign country. I was with a friend. We found a place to dig a cave and waited. We cried. We prayed. We could’ve kept trudging through the snow with our skis, but we lost track of the path. Moving on was just too hard. We had to stop and dig in and wait. Every now and then a wind would whoosh by, and we would think it was a rescue snow cat coming to find us. We rolled out of our snow cave and stood up and yelled, but it wasn’t. Terrified, we talked about whether we might freeze to death. We were 16. Finally a snow cat did come. When the real snow cat came, it was super obvious. Much louder than the wind, and the lights were a’blazing. We couldn’t miss the lights. And the operators were yelling something in German. We couldn’t miss that either.

When we are in a dark cave, it is so tempting to run here and there, hearing every whoosh and seeing every shiny object and thinking it is the Light. It’s so tempting to follow every sound and potential passageway out of the dark. Keep walking! Keep trudging!! I mean at least you are actually doing something! Who just waits there, goes back to a cold, dark place waiting for illumination?
Barbara Brown Taylor wrote a book titled Learning to Walk in the Dark. She talks about “full solar spirituality” that focuses on “seeing God as light alone, leaving dark to the devil.” And then there's the solar church that is all about having all the right answers or asking us just to have enough faith and all will be well. But something breaks down in solar churches when we are there, and we are lost and terrified. There are no neat answers that can brush away the questions. There is no bright-light space that can really hold the grief, loss and fear. Aren’t we actually looking for a place of quiet and rest and solace and isn’t super bright? Less squinting? Less noisy? Aren’t we just looking for someone who has walked in the dark, too, to help guide us?

Did Jesus mean we wouldn’t have darkness at all? The one who was shunned by his family, betrayed by his disciples, alone with evil in the wilderness, frustrated by the religious leaders, hung on a cross, placed in a tomb? Sometimes, I think we overemphasize the “will never walk in darkness” and may need to consider the “but will have the light of life.” The light of life in all that life is: birth and death, sun and moon, light and dark.

Who just waits there in a cold, dark place for illumination? Please God. Let it be me. Help me wait even in the darkness when it is so easy to run or flip the switch or get the flashlight. Keep me from grasping for the momentary, easy fix that leaves me looking again for safety. Help me wait, not blindly or passively but seeking your birth, listening for the sounds of safe passage, waiting and watching for resurrection. Help me to recognize your light: inside me and through me, within me and without me. Help me recognize you in the cold of night with the wind howling and the darkness enveloping me. Help me to know that You dwell there too with me, and that there is Light in the dark. That You, who own both day and night, are with me, and You are not afraid.
