---
layout: reading
week: 4
author: Matt Walters
scripture: Matthew 5.14-16
scripture_passage: “You are the light of the world. A city built on a hill cannot be hid. No one after lighting a lamp puts it under the bushel basket, but on the lampstand, and it gives light to all in the house. In the same way, let your light shine before others, so that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father in heaven.”
---

*“At the beginning of God’s creating the heavens and the earth, when the earth was an empty void, with darkness over the face of the deep, and God’s breath sweeping over the face of the water, God said ‘Light!’ and light came into being. God saw that light was good, and God made a distinction between light and darkness.”*
<p class="author">Genesis 1:1-4, The Bible for Everyone</p>

<br><br>

<b>We Are Light</b>

The first word God says in Genesis – the Word that initiates all creation – is the word, “Light!”
As soon as the word is uttered, light springs into being. Then “God saw that light was good,” and he “made a distinction between light and darkness” (Gen. 1:4). 

From the beginning, through all Scripture, through time and through the commissioned lives of God’s set-apart people, God has been about the business of lighting up darkness and pointing out the difference.

The trouble is, image-bearers though we are, God’s people have struggled to radiate God’s light in a dark world. Just a couple of short chapters into Genesis, the people made in God’s image acquire a taste for darkness that quickly becomes insatiable. Despite God’s faithfulness – despite the offering of chance after gracious chance for his people to carry his standard as light-bearers – all hope seems nearly extinguished.

Then under the light of a new star, Jesus blazes into our world, not just as a more capable image-bearer but as God’s very image. The Word whose “life was the light of the human race” (John 1) comes to live among us and to illuminate the darkness in which we’d otherwise have been utterly lost.

And so, we come to Matthew 5, when Jesus, Emmanuel, seeing the crowds gathering, sits down on a hillside with his disciples and proclaims the kingdom-charter for God’s new creation. As in the first creation story, God’s new world needs illuminating, so it’s not surprising that the topic of light comes up. Being God’s own son, Jesus could have announced triumphally, “I am the light of the world,” and left it at that. But looking out on that crowd, Jesus says something utterly shocking: “You are the light of the world!”
I confess, I used to cringe when reading this passage. Far from inspired, I felt defeated by it. For a long time, I thought Jesus was charging me to project right behavior for others to see, as if “following the rules” were the whole point of a Christian testimony. And this out ahead of a sermon that then goes on to reframe God’s actual standards of moral righteousness as extreme beyond my reach.
I spent a lot of time as a younger believer in a vicious fear-and-shame cycle, terrified of messing up or losing my image in others’ eyes, all while mortified at the inevitable sins and failures I desperately sought to keep secret. How could I be light for others when I couldn’t even open myself to the light of conviction and fellowship and prayer? The last place I wanted to be was up on a lampstand. Much easier – and much more enticing – to hide in the darkness.

The thing is, in all those years of cringing and hiding, I missed the promise in this passage – the promise of God’s Word.
“Light!” God says, and sure enough, light springs into being, a light that’s as distinct from darkness as day from night. “Light!” God says, and even at the cross, when sin and death were doing their worst, the darkness did not, could not, overcome it. “Light!” God says, and the gravestone rolled away!

“You are the light of the world!” Jesus says. And so I am. And so we are, Gathering Church. By God’s grace, we who were lost are now a found people, set apart by the abundant, Spirit-indwelled life of Christ that’s teeming within us. We are Christ’s body, a people with purpose to glorify the one “who called us out of darkness into his amazing light” (1 Peter 2:9). We’re a people through whom it pleases God to bring about His redemptive purposes in our world, in anticipation of the day when He will make all things new.
That’s who we are because God says so. And as light, we are given the opportunity to shine, not by play-acting at works-righteousness but by loving God with everything we have and loving others incredibly well, as Jesus did, does, and will always do. Come, Lord Jesus, come!

*God, help us to believe your promises. Help us to be your light in our world. And where the darkness seems deepest, help our light to shine with even more abundance.*