---
layout: reading
week: 3
author: Sheana Funkhouser
scripture: Isaiah 9.2-7
scripture_passage: The people who walked in darkness <br> have seen a great light&#59; <br> those who lived in a land of deep darkness— <br> on them light has shined. <br> You have multiplied the nation, <br> you have increased its joy&#59; <br> they rejoice before you <br> as with joy at the harvest, <br> as people exult when dividing plunder. <br> For the yoke of their burden, <br> and the bar across their shoulders, <br> the rod of their oppressor, <br> you have broken as on the day of Midian. <br> For all the boots of the tramping warriors <br> and all the garments rolled in blood <br> shall be burned as fuel for the fire. <br> For a child has been born for us, <br> a son given to us&#59; <br> authority rests upon his shoulders&#59; <br> and he is named <br> Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, <br> Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. <br> His authority shall grow continually, <br> and there shall be endless peace <br> for the throne of David and his kingdom. <br> He will establish and uphold it <br> with justice and with righteousness <br> from this time onward and forevermore. <br> The zeal of the Lord of hosts will do this.

---

Imagine being on an airplane on a dark, cloudy day. It’s raining and cold. Upon takeoff, your mood is as gloomy as the weather. As the plane reaches higher and higher altitude, you notice you are literally in the clouds. Then suddenly the plane bursts through the cloud layer revealing a stunningly bright and sunny vista. As far as you can see are blue skies and bright sun. It occurs to you that the sun was always shining that day, even when you were dark, cold and gloomy on earth.

Isaiah tells a similar story in this passage. Isaiah proclaims the Israelites they will see a great light, their joy will increase, their oppressors will be destroyed and the battle won. This will come to pass through a child born to them who grows up to lead, to be a Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God and Prince of Peace. This was a prophecy of the Messiah, or Anointed One, whose kingdom would never end. What an incredible promise from God.

Centuries later, Jesus arrived. He said, “I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will never walk in darkness but will have the light of life” (John 8:12). We can look at this passage in light of the cross and resurrection: our oppression from sin and injustice has been conquered, and we can live in victory. Jesus fulfilled this prophecy in many ways as the Messiah from God. Perhaps his kingdom is not one like the Israelites thought it would be, but we can know that His kingdom is never-ending, alive and growing.

Is there an area of your life where you need God’s light to shine? How could you shine His light in someone else’s life today? How could you spread God’s joy, peace and justice to others this Advent season?


