---
layout: reading
week: 4
author: Kelly Reed
scripture: Luke 2.15-20
scripture_passage: When the angels had left them and gone into heaven, the shepherds said to one another, “Let us go now to Bethlehem and see this thing that has taken place, which the Lord has made known to us.” So they went with haste and found Mary and Joseph, and the child lying in the manger. When they saw this, they made known what had been told them about this child&#59; and all who heard it were amazed at what the shepherds told them. But Mary treasured all these words and pondered them in her heart. The shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all they had heard and seen, as it had been told them.
---

<b>"For we walk by faith, not by sight."</b> (2 Corinthians 5:7)

I've yet to find a more singular phrase that sums up our Christian vocation. As Christians, we're called to believe in things we can't see and to anticipate the fulfillment of promises made long ago. Promises that — in a world dominated by suffering and hardship and mourning — seem not only too good to be true but, in our moments of darkest despair, even impossible.

This call to "faith, not sight" is hardly a modern Christian phenomenon. After all, the Israelites had been anticipating the fulfillment of God's promises since the days of Abraham. And when God made the covenant with David — that his dynastic line would yield the long-awaited Messiah — the Israelites had even more reason to anxiously await God's perfect timing and fulfillment.

So I can imagine it was quite a shock (put mildly), when a group of lonesome shepherds were simply minding their own business and tending their flock and then...BAM. They're confronted with angelic beings (!) who are heralding news of the long-awaited savior's birth (!!).

We know from scripture that they were initially terrified (I don't blame them). But I find their ultimate response very interesting. Rather than simply indulging their terror and fleeing or sitting back and taking the angels at their word, they become curious. Their response — <i>let's go to Bethlehem</i> — I imagine was in part joyous but also perhaps a bit skeptical. <i>This is too good to be true. Let's verify with our own eyes</i>.

Of course, we know how the story plays out: God, in His grace and mercy, rewards their faithful curiosity. The shepherds make their way to the manger and discover Jesus, Mary and Joseph. And then, upon seeing <b>with their own eyes</b> the fulfillment of the long-awaited covenant, they go out and share the news with everyone they meet.

Sometimes, in a world preoccupied with the immediacy of suffering and darkness, we may become dogmatic in our call to belief. Like a dog who nurses a bone long after the marrow and substance of it is gone, we might hold too tightly to our "faith without sight" vocation and willfully close our eyes to the ways God may be revealing His goodness in the here and now.

But on our own journey of faith, there _are_ the rare moments of grace when, like the shepherds' encounter with the Wholly Other, we're offered a taste of what's to come. Moments that overcome our own unbelief, when our faith _does_ become sight: the kindness of a friend, the generosity of a stranger, the evening sunset, the morning sunrise, undeserved grace given, love received in abundance.

This Advent season, may we be open to receive the glimpses of God's promises, fulfilled. May we, even in the midst of suffering and hurt, embrace the moments of grace and beauty that God gives to satiate our unbelief. And may we, on the precipice of Christmas morning, look expectantly for the coming of our Savior, while rejoicing in the ways He has <i>already</i> revealed Himself to us, in this very moment.

