---
layout: reading
week: 2
author: Mark Acuff
scripture: Colossians 2.6-7
scripture_passage: As you therefore have received Christ Jesus the Lord, continue to live your lives in him, rooted and built up in him and established in the faith, just as you were taught, abounding in thanksgiving.
---

Our house was the first one built on the street. The house was nearly completed when we were planning to move to Chapel Hill. Of the fifteen homes on our street, only two others were under construction. Two small maple trees in the front yard and a few boxwoods on either side of the front porch were the only landscaping. We have planted everything else that now grows on the property.

My mother taught me how to plant shrubs when I was in middle school. At the time I did not reckon it as “teaching” but as forced labor, for which I thought there must be some law prohibiting such cruelty. With a shovel and a pick, I would dig a hole that I thought was twice as large and twice as deep as was necessary. The dirt had to be put in a wheelbarrow because the rock-hard, orange clay soil had to be mixed with good topsoil and soil amender. (My therapist has not allowed me to qualify this experience as childhood trauma.) 

So having been properly trained in planting things, ensuring good rooting, I went at it. That was over twenty years ago. We had never lived longer than ten years in the same house, so seeing how things have grown over time has been remarkable. If I had to do it over again, I would do one thing differently. I would give everything more space, a lot more space. 

In Colossians 2:6-7 the Apostle Paul describes the Church and the Christian life as something planted, rooted, built up, established, and growing – or <i>abounding</i>, which is a great word. He uses participles, which are verbs ending in “-ing,” turning them into adjectives that describe us. And like a painter he uses the tenses and voice to paint a beautiful landscape of this growing, abounding plant. 

The word “rooted” is in a tense that means there has been a completed action with a continuing result. We do not see the roots, but the results are unmistakable. The other three descriptions are in a tense that means the action is going on in the present, continually. It is inevitable. What has been planted and rooted is being tended and is <i>abounding</i>. 

But the participle for <i>abounding</i> is different from the first three. The first three are in a passive voice: someone other than us has done the rooting, building up, and establishing. The <i>abounding</i> is in an active voice. It is what we do.

But abounding in what? 

Thanksgiving. Joyful gratefulness. 

Striving, stressing, anxiety, fear, anger, broken relationships, and whatever harms us do not make for a beautiful landscape. 

We don’t have to grit our teeth and try to be more grateful. We get to be overflowing with gratitude as we grow into what God has planted. What is growing now out of <i>the Root of Jesse</i>.

<i>Father, uproot whatever weeds might be growing in my life. Tend to me and this church as the loving and skilled gardener You are. May Your righteousness, justice, joy, and peace produce gratefulness in my life and in the lives of those around me, just like Jesus. Amen</i>.

