---
layout: reading
week: 3
author: Brandon Dorn
scripture: Exodus 23.10-12
scripture_passage: For six years you are to sow your fields and harvest the crops, but during the seventh year let the land lie unplowed and unused. Then the poor among your people may get food from it, and the wild animals may eat what is left. Do the same with your vineyard and your olive grove. Six days do your work, but on the seventh day do not work, so that your ox and your donkey may rest, and so that the slave born in your household and the foreigner living among you may be refreshed.
---

I have a wonderfully, hilariously, sometimes annoyingly active dog. She is bred for bird hunting, but since I don’t bird hunt I have to find other ways to preoccupy her during the day. Ani and I go for walks, play fetch and tug in the backyard, hunt for treats I hide around the house, bark out the window at passersby (well, she does). Like all sporting dogs, if Ani had it her way she’d be roaming the woods all day, every day, coming home only for a snack and a scratch. Those of you who have met her know that her default mode is “active.”

When she was a puppy, I learned that she needed to be <i>taught</i> how to rest, much like she had to be taught how to sit, stay, and, of course, roll over. Like a busy toddler, she wouldn’t power down unless I put her in her crate and left her alone. Rest didn’t come naturally to her. And as I’ve grown older, I’ve discovered the same tendency in myself. Like the sheep in Psalm 23, I need to be “made to lie down,” otherwise I just keep going, keep finding things to work on, projects to start, ways to stay busy. Psychologists call this “idleness aversion,” a habitual resistance to not-doing. It’s taken me years of counseling and reflection to uncover the roots of anxiety that feed this habit of perpetual motion.

In addition to the parts of my past that prevent me from willingly resting, I’ve been shaped by our society’s culture of productivity. Our relationship with time swings between the extremes of putting it to <i>work</i>, accomplishing as much as we can as quickly as we can, and putting it to <i>death</i>, when we’re “killing time” before our next activity. Yet both busyness and listlessness are anxious responses to the fact of our limited time. They are signs that we are out of step with our intended rhythms of work and rest.

The Israelites were commanded not only to observe Sabbath every seven days, but also to allow their land to lie fallow every seven years, each period of rest a deliberate patterning of the Genesis creation story. This commandment, like all the commandments, came after the exodus from Egypt, where they had been enslaved for 400 years. As slaves, their work was their life; if they stopped working, they would be put to death. Who could blame them for having a deep, habitual culture of productivity after leaving their slavery? Surely they had a sense of how much could be accomplished through unrelenting labor. Yet this commandment tells us that their way of life was not life-giving or sustainable, for themselves, for their neighbors, for their animals. They needed to reorient themselves not around work, though the majority of their week would consist of work, but around Sabbath rest that creates space not only for them, but for the wild animals and poor to get what they need.

It is telling that the creation story begins and ends in God’s <i>resting</i>. Before he created the cosmos, God was presumably at rest. And he rests on the seventh day. To me this implies that everything holds together not because of God’s labor, but because of his sheer presence. Is he active in our lives? Yes. But it is a restful presence that invites us into restful work. Though we have a part to play, we are not holding everything together—our friendships, our businesses, our city, our families, our own lives.

<hr>

When Ani is milling aimlessly around the house and I know she needs a nap, I give her the command to go to her crate. And she plops down on her bed, curls up, and lets out a long, contented groan. It’s our version of the Sabbath commandment, and it’s good for her and for her neighbors (mostly me). Yet I, and maybe you too, also need to be told to rest, such that our lives become spacious and hospitable to others, and to ourselves.