---
layout: reading
week: 4
author: Brittany Kohan
scripture: Revelation 22.1-5, 16-17
scripture_passage: Then the angel showed me the river of the water of life, bright as crystal, flowing from the throne of God and of the Lamb through the middle of the street of the city. On either side of the river is the tree of life with its twelve kinds of fruit, producing its fruit each month&#59; and the leaves of the tree are for the healing of the nations. Nothing accursed will be found there any more. But the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it, and his servants will worship him&#59; they will see his face, and his name will be on their foreheads. And there will be no more night&#59; they need no light of lamp or sun, for the Lord God will be their light, and they will reign forever and ever.<br><br>“It is I, Jesus, who sent my angel to you with this testimony for the churches. I am the root and the descendant of David, the bright morning star.”<br><br>The Spirit and the bride say, “Come.”<br><br>And let everyone who hears say, “Come.”<br><br>And let everyone who is thirsty come.<br><br>Let anyone who wishes take the water of life as a gift.

---

Have you ever compiled a family tree? I remember growing up and hearing all about my ancestors. Every year or so my grandmother would pull out all sorts of yellowed papers and fill the dining room table with big flowcharts of family lineage. Not trees, flowcharts. These flowcharts held all the names of our family going back hundreds of years. We had clear lines of who was born to whom, who married whom, and when people died. What those boxes and lines did not show was the lives that were lived and the relationships that existed. Maybe for you, the thought of ancestors and family trees brings feelings of disappointment, anger or sadness. Maybe there is a new death or a missing birth on the family tree this year. As we are mere days away from Christmas, whatever our feelings are regarding our family flowchart Jesus offers us a new family tree.

In fact, today’s passage is a beautiful scene with Jesus as the root of an entirely new creation. We spend a lot of time in the Advent and Christmas seasons looking back at Jesus’ life, but this scene in Revelation offers us a hope of a future where family trees are places of life and love, growth and abundance. However, this passage is not only a hope for the future. Jesus also invites us to this new creation here and now.

Today, we have an invitation to plant ourselves in the new creation Jesus offers with Jesus as our root. No matter where you have come from or what your life has looked like, Jesus says come and be a tree in my garden. I will be your root, grounding you and sustaining you. When you allow me to be your root, I will grow the fruit of the Spirit in your life. Fruit like joy and peace, kindness and gentleness will hang from your branches for those around you to experience and enjoy. Your leaves will provide shade for the weary, cover for the weak and beauty for the hopeless. Oh what beautiful possibilities when Jesus is our root.

