---
layout: reading
week: 1
author: Karl Gustafson
scripture: Psalm 1
scripture_passage: Happy is the man who does not take the wicked for his guide <br>nor walk the road that sinners tread<br>nor take his seat among the scornful&#59;<br>the law of the Lord is his delight,<br>the law his meditation night and day.<br>He is like a tree planted beside a watercourse,<br>which yields its fruit in season and its leaf never withers&#58;<br>in all that he does he prospers.<br>Wicked men are not like this&#58;<br>They are like chaff driven by the wind.<br>So when judgment comes the wicked shall not stand firm,<br>nor shall sinners stand in the assembly of the righteous.<br>The Lord watches over the way of the righteous,<br>but the way of the wicked is doomed.
---

In 1978, Crystal Gale released a single called “Ready for the Times to Get Better, ” a song originally penned by Allen Reynolds. In 2002, Doc Watson and David Holt released a cover of the song. Their version is my favorite. The lyrics include the following:

<blockquote><p><i>I’ve had enough of this continual rain.
A change is comin’ no doubt.<br>
It’s been a too long time,<br>
No peace of mind,<br>
And I’m ready for the times to get better.<br>
A long, lonely time with no peace of mind,<br>
And I’m ready for the times to get better.</i></p></blockquote>

I don’t know if you are in the mood for Advent or not. But Advent is here! And if you are reading this devotional, I already know some of what you are going to do this Advent. You are at least <i>interested</i> in giving God the opportunity to win over your heart again. 

Our Advent journey this year begins with a psalm. “In the Psalms,” Norwegian Old Testament scholar Sigmund Mowinckel notes, “the human heart has found its own counterpart at all times, in sorrow and happiness, as an individual and as a member of God’s people.” Advent is an opportunity to focus on the divine afresh, and the psalms give us language to refocus amidst whatever daily struggle we are facing.

God’s children consistently forge our way through swirling political ideologies, disappointing relationships, painful losses, institutional failures, identity issues, and faith crises. Trying to measure up to our own and others’ needs and desires is <i>exhausting</i>.

In the scheme of Hebrew poetry, Psalm 1 is a Wisdom Psalm. Wisdom psalms were written by scholarly and well-traveled members of the community. Many worked as scribes who acted as guardians of both the spiritual and literary traditions of the temple.

These scribes may remind you of the “scribes and Pharisees” of the New Testament. These folks exhorted others enthusiastically, believed they held insider access to the divine, and shared their beliefs as if they were fact. In their view, two groups of people existed: (1) those in the right and (2) those in the wrong. You might easily guess which group the author of Psalm 1 considered himself a part of. If you do the right thing, your life will go well and things will ultimately end well. Right?

You and I both know that doing the right thing doesn’t prevent us from going through a season of suffering and tasting the bitterness of injustice. Sometimes the wicked prosper. Sometimes the righteous suffer. 

But the author of this psalm does have some good advice. After all, the thought of my life turning into “chaff,” or what Derek Kidner describes as “what is rootless, weightless and useless” is really unappealing. Instead, Kidner challenges all of us to “think hard about the will of God,” because whatever shapes our thoughts shapes our lives.

The good news is that you are already “planted” along the riverbank of divine life. You didn't plant yourself. God planted you. You are God’s plant, and God is your vinedresser, continuing to shape you along this Advent journey. You are in the right place at the right time. <b>Drink, pilgrim, drink!</b> For you have been planted beside a watercourse. 

Another psalmist testifies, “As the deer pants for streams of water, so I long for you, O God” (Psalm 42:1, NLT). Ask God to lead you into a fresh encounter with the Christ of Advent. You may want to say, “Yes, God, I’m in. I’m ready for the times to get better.”

