---
layout: reading
week: 3
author: Richella Parham
scripture: Galatians 5.22-25
scripture_passage: By contrast, the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, generosity, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. There is no law against such things. And those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. If we live by the Spirit, let us also be guided by the Spirit. Let us not become conceited, competing against one another, envying one another.
---

When God created the beautiful world of sunshine and moonlight, trees and flowers, birds and fishes and animals, one creature was set apart from the others. The Genesis account tells us that the triune God made human beings “in our image, in our likeness, so that they may rule over the fish in the sea and the birds in the sky, over the livestock and all the wild animals, and over all the creatures that move along the ground” (Genesis 1:26). To be made in the image of God carries many connotations, including the job described in that verse—the work of ruling in the place of the one who reigns. 

We might think of reigning over a realm as a task that involves crown and scepter, bringing power and prestige. But the tools given to our first parents were more along the lines of shovel and hoe. Caring for a garden was the first work given to human beings in their charge to rule over the earth: more service and stewardship than prominence and prestige.

Although I love to eat fresh vegetables, I didn’t grow up with much respect for gardening. I thought of our gardens in rural West Tennessee as places of torture, especially when it was time to pull weeds or to pick okra. But gardening metaphors are favorites of the biblical writers, and for good reason: while life with God is begun in us instantaneously, it is something that must be cultivated and grown in order to flourish. So it is no surprise when Paul the apostle speaks of the work of the Holy Spirit in our lives as “fruit.” 

Paul writes a lot about the Holy Spirit. He warned the Thessalonian Christians not to quench the work of the Spirit. In writing to the church at Corinth, he observed that some of them were too impressed by the showy gifts of the Spirit, such as prophesying and speaking in tongues. Spiritual gifts are given one at a time, different gifts to different believers, fulfilling different needs in the church. But today’s passage from the letter to the Galatians explains that the fruit of the Spirit—the outpouring of the inner work of God—is meant to be visible in the lives of every believer: love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. Sounds like a wonderful harvest, doesn’t it?

Yet that harvest doesn’t come about simply by divine fiat. Instead, God invites each of us to cooperate with the Spirit in cultivating these attributes, watching and waiting for good things to grow. 

This Advent, we look once again at the coming of Christ: the eternal Son of God who became a human, whose life was lived completely in step with the Spirit, whose death was undeserved, and whose resurrection defeated death forever. Guided by the Spirit, we help one another do the kinds of things Jesus did. We pray and fast, study and meditate, worship and celebrate, serve and rest. And we trust that the Spirit is at work beneath the surface, growing good fruit in the soil of our hearts.

