---
layout: reading
week: 3
author: Jenny Lowndes
scripture: Luke 1.46-56
scripture_passage: And Mary said,<br><br>“My soul magnifies the Lord,<br>and my spirit rejoices in God my Savior,<br>for he has looked with favor on the lowliness of his servant.<br>Surely, from now on all generations will call me blessed&#59;<br>for the Mighty One has done great things for me,<br>and holy is his name.<br>His mercy is for those who fear him<br>from generation to generation.<br>He has shown strength with his arm&#59;<br>he has scattered the proud in the thoughts of their hearts.<br>He has brought down the powerful from their thrones,<br>and lifted up the lowly&#59;<br>he has filled the hungry with good things,<br>and sent the rich away empty.<br>He has helped his servant Israel,<br>in remembrance of his mercy,<br>according to the promise he made to our ancestors,<br>to Abraham and to his descendants forever.”<br><br>And Mary remained with her about three months and then returned to her home.

---

The Magnificat, or Mary's Song as we like to call it, hangs on a banner above the bed of our oldest daughter, Eloise. More than 10 years ago, Curt wrote out the words of Mary's song on two scrap pieces of fabric that were part of a banner created by our home group. That beloved collection of friends walked with us through the valley of the shadow of death and out the other side. They also rejoiced with us and wanted the banner to hang in the nursery of our first child as a sign, a witness to their love for our family.
 
The last several months of my pregnancy Curt began reciting Mary's song to Eloise while she was still growing inside my womb. I asked him why he chose to write Mary's song on the banner and to recite it over her daily. He said something along the lines of: "I want our daughter to be filled with joy like Mary. I want her joy to overflow in songs of praise. I hope if I read it enough it will sink into her life and my life and your life. This song feels like a prayer that our world needs and the future world that she will live in needs. I want our daughter to be like Mary, full of joy, mercy, justice, and hope." On October 16th, 2012 our first daughter Mary Eloise was born. Mary is her namesake. Joy is her song.
 
May we sing like Mary this Advent season. May we recite Mary's song over and over in hope of experiencing her joy. Let us proclaim and sing God's mighty acts. Let us declare to the world that Christ's arrival means a new world, a new creation, has come. Let us rejoice and sing to the world that Christ's coming brings hope to the hopeless, freedom to the imprisoned, and justice to the oppressed. May our hope burn brightly as the harvest draws near. May this song of Mary's take us to Jesus this Advent season and the days ahead.