---
layout: reading
week: 1
author: Richella Parham
scripture: Matthew 11:28-30
scripture_passage: Come to me, all you who are weary and are carrying heavy burdens, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, for I am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.
---

“I’ll sleep when I’m dead.” I once heard these words spoken by an eager young entrepreneur. Most of the folks in the room smiled their approval of his drive and initiative. We all believed that his work was worthwhile and important, so it was easy to affirm his no-holds-barred attitude toward getting it done.

I wish I could get a do-over on that meeting. While I wouldn’t want to discourage the young man from working hard, I’d warn him not to ignore his God-given need for rest.

Yep, I said it. His <i>God-given</i> need for rest.

Isn’t it ironic that even though the scriptures teach us that God modeled rest for us (Genesis 2:1-3) and commanded His people to follow His example (Exodus 20:8-11), we often think of rest as something to engage in only when absolutely necessary? 

In its worship of performance and productivity, our society tends to see a need for rest in terms of weakness. But we worship our Creator, who designed us to work <i>and</i> rest. 

Jesus offered his followers a glimpse of the precious, eternal relationship between himself and his Father, and he made a way for us to be part of that circle of love. At his behest, we’re invited to tell the truth: to admit that we’re weary and to join him in living a life of realness and wholeness. 

I love the way Eugene Peterson translates the passage in <i>The Message</i>:

“Are you tired? Worn out? Burned out on religion? Come to me. Get away with me and you’ll recover your life. I’ll show you how to take a real rest. Walk with me and work with me—watch how I do it. Learn the unforced rhythms of grace. I won’t lay anything heavy or ill-fitting on you. Keep company with me and you’ll learn to live freely and lightly.”
 
Can’t you imagine the heads nodding as Jesus asked his questions? I sure can.

Then comes the offer to learn to live freely and lightly, according to the unforced rhythms of grace. That’s how I want to live! And the only way to do that is <i>with Jesus</i>. 

Are you tired too? Has life worn you out?

Maybe you’ll want to join me in this prayer: <i>Lord, as we begin this Advent season, help us to long once more for the life you bring. Rescue us from trying to manufacture what can only come from you. Amen.</i>

<b>What is one way you might practice rest this Advent?</b>

