---
layout: reading
week: 2
author: Sheana Funkhouser
scripture: Isaiah 9:2-7
scripture_passage: The people who walked in darkness<br>have seen a great light&#59;<br>those who lived in a land of deep darkness—<br>on them light has shined.<br>You have multiplied exultation&#59;<br>you have increased its joy&#59;<br>they rejoice before you<br>as with joy at the harvest,<br>as people exult when dividing plunder.<br>For the yoke of their burden<br>and the bar across their shoulders,<br>the rod of their oppressor,<br>you have broken as on the day of Midian.<br>For all the boots of the tramping warriors<br>and all the garments rolled in blood<br>shall be burned as fuel for the fire.<br>For a child has been born for us,<br>a son given to us&#59;<br>authority rests upon his shoulders,<br>and he is named<br>Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God,<br>Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace.<br>Great will be his authority,<br>and there shall be endless peace<br>for the throne of David and his kingdom.<br>He will establish and uphold it<br>with justice and with righteousness<br>from this time onward and forevermore.<br>The zeal of the Lord of hosts will do this.
---

If you’ve ever been on a walk or hike at night, you know that it is very difficult to not only stay on the path, but also to keep yourself from falling over roots or rocks and getting hurt. Your progress is slow, and every step can be scary or dangerous. 

Now, think of walking at night with a really good bright flashlight. You can point it at your feet to look for dangers and you can also shine it up ahead to scan for the trail. Psalm 119.105 echoes this idea&#58; “Thy Word is a lamp unto my feet, and a light unto my path.”

Isaiah tells a similar story in this passage. Isaiah shares with the Israelites a prophecy from God that they will see a great light, their joy will be great, the oppressors will be destroyed, and the battle will be won. This will come to pass through a child, born to them who will grow up to lead them, a Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, and Prince of Peace.

This was a prophecy of the Messiah whose kingdom would increase and never end. What an incredible promise from God this was. About 700 years later, Jesus was born. Now, Christians can look at this passage and hear echoes of Jesus telling his followers “I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will never walk in darkness but will have the light of life.” (John 8.12). We get to live in that light!

We live in that light today, and every day, by being in relationship with Jesus. Each Sunday at the beginning of worship, we light our Christ Candle as a visible reminder that Christ is the light of the world, and that means we are called to be lights too.

Our sadness and suffering from sins and injustices are being conquered, and we can live in joy. Jesus fulfilled this prophecy in so many ways as the Messiah, or the Anointed One. Jesus’ kingdom is not one like perhaps the Israelites thought it would be, but we can know that God’s kingdom is never ending, alive, and growing. And that gives us a lot to be joyful about!

<b>Who is someone that shines the light of Christ in your life?</b>