---
layout: reading
week: 1
author: Megan Long
scripture: Genesis 2.4-9
scripture_passage: These are the generations of the heavens and the earth when they were created. In the day that the Lord God made the earth and the heavens, when no plant of the field was yet in the earth and no vegetation of the field had yet sprung up—for the Lord God had not caused it to rain upon the earth, and there was no one to till the ground, but a stream would rise from the earth and water the whole face of the ground—then the Lord God formed man from the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and the man became a living being. And the Lord God planted a garden in Eden, in the east, and there he put the man whom he had formed. Out of the ground the Lord God made to grow every tree that is pleasant to the sight and good for food, the tree of life also in the midst of the garden, and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil.
---

In late winter, my husband Andrew and I dream together. We plan what we want to plant at our house for spring, and we start to think about turning over our raised beds after their winter rest. We have herbs, tomatoes, cucumbers, eggplants, you name it.

The new season is time to start from scratch, to start over. And new beginnings take a lot of work! We dig and till the dirt, plant and water the seedlings, and prune the plants. We do all this so the plants can ultimately grow strong and withstand the summer heat.

In reading the creation account in Genesis 2, we see some of God's thoughtful steps towards cultivating and creating a space for life and growth. God not only created us and breathed life into our bodies but also wanted to care for and feed us too. 

So, out of compassion, God planted the Garden of Eden. In the garden, God planted trees that would bear good fruit, food to feed Adam and Eve. God also cared for the trees themselves, causing water to spring up from the very ground. If God cared in this way for the trees, think about how much God must also love and care for us. God gave us the very breath of life and created us in God’s own image, the Imago Dei.

Have you ever thought about how interconnected we are to all of God’s creation? From the tiny mustard seed of faith that can move a mountain, to the sycamore tree that helped Zaccheus see Jesus, or the fig tree that shaded Jonah in times of distress, we see how God both nourishes creation and allows creation to nourish and sustain us. Trees, plants, and farming are referenced as places of change, discipline, and growth throughout scripture. 

On the night that Jesus was betrayed and arrested, he prayed in the Garden of Gethsemane. NEEDTOBREATHE wrote a song about Jesus’ time in Gethsemane called “Garden.” The lyrics go like this: 

<blockquote><p><i>In this hour of doubt I see,<br>
Who I am is not just me.<br>
So give me strength to die myself,<br>
So love can live to tell the tale</i>.</p></blockquote>

Even for Jesus, in a time of deep anguish, the garden remained a sustaining place that allowed him to surrender completely to the will of the Father.

I am reminded by the Garden of Eden and the garden in Gethsemane that we are planted by, cared for, and pruned by a loving father. A loving father who can handle and wants to know our fears, joys, heartaches, and everything in between. This picture is what I hope we will continue to remember – God chose to care for us by planting a garden to nourish, protect, and sustain us. These moments provide us hope, a hope that even in the darkness our good Father cares for us.

