---
layout: reading
week: 2
author: Heidi Varberg
scripture: John 15.1-5
scripture_passage: “I am the true vine, and my Father is the vinegrower. He removes every branch in me that bears no fruit. Every branch that bears fruit he prunes to make it bear more fruit. You have already been cleansed by the word that I have spoken to you. Abide in me as I abide in you. Just as the branch cannot bear fruit by itself unless it abides in the vine, neither can you unless you abide in me. I am the vine&#59; you are the branches. Those who abide in me and I in them bear much fruit, because apart from me you can do nothing.”
---

The analogy of pruning in these verses brings to mind my family's orchard in Wisconsin. Helping my dad prune these trees made me so conflicted — the trees looked healthy enough to me! Removing parts of the tree made me nervous. But my dad was quick to explain that we needed to make sure the tree's limited energy was put towards the most promising branches. When I was still skeptical, he reminded me of how Grandma's fruit trees looked. My grandma was so upset with how pruning made her trees look that eventually she stopped pruning them altogether. The trees grew too large and produced less and less fruit each year.

Reflecting now, I recognize how important it is to remove the branches that are not bearing fruit. I recognize that it can be healthy to consider the non-fruit bearing branches in my life. We are just like the trees that I didn't want to prune — we only have so much energy to go around. What branches am I hanging on to that I might consider letting go?

If you are anything like me, you are quick to spot the areas in your life where you are falling short and the "branches" that you'd like removed. On the other hand, Jesus also says that God will prune even the fruit-bearing branches so they can produce more fruit. I find it harder to have the thriving branches pruned. For me, it's far more uncomfortable to have my gifts realigned than my weaknesses. I think it's because this process requires so much humility. A beloved college professor of mine, Dr. Danielle Corple, described this kind of humility as "the awareness that there is a lot that you don't know and that a lot of what you think you know is distorted or wrong." Pruning is difficult. Much like trees, it takes a whole season (of life) or more to see the beautiful effects.

Thankfully, Jesus tells us that we don't go through this process alone. We are called to abide in Him, to remain in Him, to stay with Him. This reminds us that salvation has already taken place, not vice versa. The fruit we are bearing now is from the Lord and for the Lord; it is evidence of our salvation. No amount of honest pruning or fruitful harvest could ever earn salvation. What an incredible gift!

As we grow together this Advent season, let us gracefully allow the Spirit to do the holy work of pruning, trusting that the Lord has a plan for us.

