---
layout: reading
week: 4
author: Sam Ferrell
scripture: Matthew 28.16-20
scripture_passage: Now the eleven disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain to which Jesus had directed them. When they saw him, they worshiped him&#59; but some doubted. And Jesus came and said to them, “All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, and teaching them to obey everything that I have commanded you. And remember, I am with you always, to the end of the age. 
---

<b>“I am with you always, to the end of the age.”</b> (Matt. 28:20)

What a profound promise! God promises to be with us <b>always</b>. Not just when we’re in a good mood, not just when we’re doing the right things, not just when we feel strong in our faith. God promises to be with us <b>always</b>. When the eleven disciples saw Jesus, “some doubted” (Matt. 28:17). Jesus was <i>literally</i> standing in front of them, and they struggled with doubt. But their doubt was not a barrier to God’s promise. God promises to be with us and there is nothing we can do to break that promise.

Jesus also told those same doubters to spread the good news. Jesus didn’t command them to make sure their theology was perfect first. He didn’t ask them to have their lives all figured out. Jesus simply told them to go teach others what he had taught them. And then he promised to <b>always</b> be with them. Both the promise and commandment Jesus gave to the eleven disciples are for us, too. As people who have encountered Jesus, we are called to pass on Jesus’s teaching. We are called to tell others about the mighty acts of God we have experienced.

One of the most profound things I have experienced is God’s presence in my life. At Christmas, we celebrate Jesus coming into the world. We celebrate the presence of God <i>among</i> us.

We can also celebrate the presence of God <i>within</i> us. Jesus came to dwell on earth for a short time; but Jesus came to dwell within us <b>always</b>. Consider the joy you have living within you, then consider who might benefit from experiencing that joy for themselves. Remember, you don’t have to have it all figured out. You don’t have to know exactly what to say. God will be with you as you share your joy with others.

