---
layout: reading
week: 1
author: Anne Easker
scripture: John 1.1-9
scripture_passage: In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things came into being through him, and without him not one thing came into being. What has come into being in him was life, and the life was the light of all people. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness did not overcome it. <br><br> There was a man sent from God, whose name was John. He came as a witness to testify to the light, so that all might believe through him. He himself was not the light, but he came to testify to the light. The true light, which enlightens everyone, was coming into the world.

---

The first verse in this passage is the first verse in the Advent calendar my mom, sister, and I opened every year when I was growing up. We weren’t the kind of family who had Advent calendars filled with chocolate in every window. I didn’t know such things even existed until I was much older. 

Ours was simply a painted scene of the birth of Jesus in a stable, but every December evening in our living room, I felt the anticipation of opening one more window, getting a slightly bigger glimpse of the picture and one more verse of the story.

In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. On December 1, my small fingers opened a tiny window to a picture of a candle, its burning wick surrounded by the glow of orange flame.

John starts his gospel by taking us to the very beginning. Before all stars and galaxies, before the universe began, there was God the Son, the Living Word. 

What does it mean for Jesus to be the Word? The beauty of the verse struck me, though I couldn’t quite understand what it meant.

Now, after a year and a half in divinity school, I can tell you that the Word is logos in Greek, a word common in Greek philosophy that signifies wisdom and reason. Many early church fathers were schooled in Platonism, so they spoke of Christ as the wisdom of God and the mind of God. By this, they understood the Son was eternal, because God is never without God’s mind or wisdom.

This is helpful, perhaps, in expanding our ways of thinking about God, but I’m not sure it’s altogether more instructive than the wonder I felt as a little girl who loved books and knew words could conjure whole worlds out of nothing. From a young age, I loved the way words could transport me from my bedroom in Iowa to places like Narnia and Middle Earth, building enchanted forests and misty mountains out of syllables and sounds, places of magic and adventure, where anything was possible.

Then, in adolescence, when insecurities ripped holes in my sense of self-worth, draining the light from my world, words were the thing I grasped blindly in the dark, a foothold in a landslide.

Words painted pictures of a future beyond loneliness and beyond pain. Jamie Tworkowski, the founder of the nonprofit To Write Love On Her Arms, spoke of hope as a sunrise, as fireworks, as long, honest conversations with good friends. It was not what my world looked like, but the words drew me forward toward a future of beauty and goodness.

Perhaps God works a little like that. In Genesis, at the beginning of all things, God speaks and the world is brought into existence. First, light. Then, sky, land and sea. Trees and plants, sun, moon, and stars. Birds and fish, animals and humans. 

Later, when that world was mangled by violence, God spoke through the prophets, who called into existence a world unimaginable, where cruel powers are overthrown, where the poor buy wine and milk without money, where nations beat swords into ploughshares, where mountains and hills burst into song, where even judgement, strangely, comes as salvation reaching all ends of the earth.

This good Word is life, possibility, light blazing in the darkness as hope for a future that is both now and not yet.

We all know darkness is undeniable. Sometimes, we see it more clearly, and sometimes we are isolated by privileges that make it harder to see. We don’t hear the gunshots on the other side of our city or see friends return to the streets to feed addictions taking hold of their bodies. We may not experience discrimination based on the color of our skin or panic as the door closes behind us in a solitary confinement cell with no sunlight, no companionship, no name.

Whether we know those things through experience or not, none of us are untouchable. We know the death of a loved one, the fear of a diagnosis, the numbness of depression, the ache of loneliness, or the small pit in your stomach as you watch or scroll through nightly news and know something isn’t right. Perhaps nothing is.

But John says, the light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it. The light shines, and the darkness has not grasped hold of it, extinguished it, or comprehended it.

That light is Christ, present from the beginning and throughout all ages, calling light and life into existence where death and darkness reign. The true light was coming into the world in a new way, sewing God’s very self into our sin-and-death-infected flesh to heal and restore it, to make a home among us, to call us children of God.

The light shines in the darkness. It shines in the Church, who has become Christ’s body. As we wait for the light this Advent, may we bear witness like John. 

Maybe this looks like holding hope for someone who can’t hold it on their own. Maybe it means proclaiming in words the kingdom to come, or maybe it means sitting in silence, making space for holy tears. Maybe it means working with your hands or giving out of your resources to make our world more just.

Whatever it looks like for you this season, may your body in this world be evidence that the light already is shining.

