---
layout: reading
week: 2
author: Jessica Neiman
scripture: Genesis 32.22-31
scripture_passage: The same night he got up and took his two wives, his two maids, and his eleven children, and crossed the ford of the Jabbok. He took them and sent them across the stream, and likewise everything that he had. Jacob was left alone&#59; and a man wrestled with him until daybreak. When the man saw that he did not prevail against Jacob, he struck him on the hip socket&#59; and Jacob’s hip was put out of joint as he wrestled with him. Then he said, “Let me go, for the day is breaking.” But Jacob said, “I will not let you go, unless you bless me.” So he said to him, “What is your name?” And he said, “Jacob.” Then the man said, “You shall no longer be called Jacob, but Israel, for you have striven with God and with humans, and have prevailed.” Then Jacob asked him, “Please tell me your name.” But he said, “Why is it that you ask my name?” And there he blessed him. So Jacob called the place Peniel, saying, “For I have seen God face to face, and yet my life is preserved.” The sun rose upon him as he passed Penuel, limping because of his hip.
---

I have gone through seasons where I dreaded nighttime. Night after night of interrupted sleep wrestling babies who have their days and nights mixed up. Next day chores of brushing my teeth and sweeping up Cheerios on the floor become monumental victories! There are weighty, worrisome nights where I wrestle with anxiety and panic attacks when what I desire most is peace and rest.
 
I am learning that often God invites us to wrestle. We wrestle with relationships, wrestle with systems of injustice, wrestle with ourselves … wrestle with God. Jacob wrestles with God through the night; honestly, I am not sure what it all means. But one thing is clear: God is not far off but right in the thick of it with Jacob. This speaks to how deeply relational God is. Jacob’s wrestling with God changes him. After that God-encounter Jacob walked away with a limp. When we listen to the stories of people who are marginalized in our world, listen to children, listen to God, we too may “limp.” When we attend to voices outside our own spheres, often our perceptions of reality are challenged, and this process is frequently uncomfortable, even painful. It changes us.
 
<p>In Romans 12: 1-2 Paul lays out what we are to do with God’s help: <i>“Take your everyday, ordinary life—your sleeping, eating, going-to-work, and walking-around life—and place it before God as an offering. Embracing what God does for you is the best thing you can do for him. <b>Don’t become so well-adjusted to your culture that you fit into it without even thinking. Instead, fix your attention on God. You’ll be changed from the inside out.</b> Readily recognize what he wants from you, and quickly respond to it. Unlike the culture around you, always dragging you down to its level of immaturity, God brings the best out of you, develops well-formed maturity in you.”</i> (The Message, bolded for emphasis)</p>
 
Jesus’ invitation is to follow him, to see, to listen, to serve others through a relationship with God. We are not able to do this well, and so we wrestle. We do not come out unscathed. Neither did Jesus. Yet new eternal life grows out of wrestling, and we are changed to be who we were made to be: image-bearers bringing glory and honor to God.
 
What are you wrestling with? Why? Where is God in it?
 
In Matthew 11:28-29 Jesus says, *“Come to me, all of you who are weary and carry heavy burdens, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you. Let me teach you, because I am humble and gentle at heart, and you will find rest for your souls.”* (NLT)
 
What is God’s invitation to you today?

